PART I,
A TALE OF THE FOUNDATION OF THE GREAT ISLAND, NOW NORTH
' AMERICA :-—THE TWO INFANTS BORN, AND THE CREATION OF THE
UNIVERSE.

Among the ancients there were two worlds in existence. The lower world
was in a great darkness ;—the possession of the great monster ; but the up-
er world was inhabited by mankind ; and there was a woman conceived and
would have the twin born. When her travail drew near, and her situation
seemed to produce a great distress on her mind, and she was induced by
some of her relations to lay herself on a mattrass which was prepared, so as
to gain refreshments to her wearied body ; put while she was asleep the very
place sunk down towards the dark world. ‘The monsters of the great water
were alarmed at her appearance of descending to the lower world ; in con-
sequence all the species of the creatures were immediately collected into
where it was expected she would fall. When the monsters were assembled,
and they made consultation, one of them was appointed in haste to search
the great deep, in order to procure some earth, if it could be obtained ; ac-
cordingly the monster descends, which succeeds, and returns to the place.
Another requisition was presented, who would be capable to secure the
woman from the terrors of the great water, but none was able to comply
except a large turtle came forward and made proposal to them to endure her
lasting weight, which was accepted. The woman was yet descending from
a great distance. The turtle executes upon the spot, and a small quantity
of earth was varnished on the back part of the turtle. The woman alights
on the seat prepared, and she receives a satisfaction. While holding her, the
turtle increased every moment and became a considerable island of earth,
and apparently covered with small bushes. ‘The woman remained in a state
of unlimited darkness, and she was overtaken by her travail to which she
was subject. While she was in the limits of distress one. of the infants in
her womb was moved by an evil opinion and he was determined to pass out
under the side of the parent’s arm, and the other infant in vain endeavoured
to prevent his design. The woman was in a painful condition during the
time of their disputes, and the infants entered the dark world by compul-
sion, and their parent expired in a few moments. They had the power of
sustenance without a nurse, and remained in the dark regions. After a
time the turtle increased to a great Island and the infants were grown up,
and one of them possessed with a gentle disposition, and named ENIGO-
RIO, i. e. the good mind. The other youth possessed an insolence of char-
acter, and was named ENIGONHAHETGEA, i. e. the bad mind. The
good mind was not contented to remain in a dark situation, and he was anx-
ious to create a great light in the dark world ; but the bad mind was desir-
ous that the world should remain in a natural state. The good mind deter-
mines to prosecute his designs, and therefore commences the work of crea-
tion. At first he took the parent’s head, (the deceased) of which he crea-

