14
ted an orb, and established it in the centre of the firmament, and it became
of a very superior nature to bestow light to the new world, (now the sun)
and again he took the remnant of the body and formed another orb, which
was inferior to the light (now moon.) In the orb a cloud of legs appeared
to prove it was the body of the good mind, (parent.) The former was to
give light to the day and _ the latter to the night ; and he also created nu-
merous spots of light, (now stars :) these were to regulate the days, nights,
Seasons, years, &c. Whenever the light extended to the dark world the
monsters were displeased and immediately concealed themselves in the deep
places, lest they should be discovered by some human beings. The good
mind continued the works of creation, and he formed numerous creeks and
rivers on the Great Island, and then created numerous species of animals of
the smallest and greatest, to inhabit the forests, and fishes of all kinds to in-
habit the waters. When he had made the universe he was in doubt respect-
ing some being to possess the Great Island ; and he formed two images of
the dust’ of the ground in his own likeness, male and female, and by his
breathing into their nostrils he gave them the living souls, and named them
EA-GWE-HOWE, i. e. a real people ; and he gave the Great Island all
the animals of game for their maintenance ; and he appointed thunder to
water the earth by frequent rains, agreeable to the nature of the system ;
after this the Island became fruitful and vegetation afforded the animals
subsistance. The bad mind, while his brother was making the universe,
went throughout the Island and made numerous high mountains and falls
of water, and great steeps, and also creates various reptiles which would be
injurious to mankind ; but the good mind restored the Island to its former
condition. The bad mind proceeded further in his motives and he made
two images of clay in the form of mankind ; but while he was giving them
existence they became apes; and when he had not the power to create
mankind he was envious against his brother ; and again he made two of
clay. The good mind discovered his brothers contrivances, and aided in!
giving them living souls,* (it is said these had the most knowledge of good
and evil.) The good mind now accomplishes the works of creation, not-
withstanding the imaginations of the bad mind were continually evil ; and
he attempted to enclose all the animals of game in the earth, so as to de-
prive them from mankind ; but the good mind released them from confine-
ment, (the animals were dispersed, and traces of them. were made on the
rocks near the cave where it was closed.) The good mind experiences that
his brother was at variance with the works of creation, and feels not dispos-
ed to favor any of his proceedings, but gives admonitions of his future state.
Afterwards the good mind requested his brother to accompany him, as he
was proposed to inspect the game, &e., but when a short distance from their
moninal residence, the bad mind became go unmanly that he could not con-
duct his brother any more. The bad mind offered a challenge to his broth-
er and resolved that who gains the victory should govern the universe ; and
appointed a day to meet the contest. The good mind was willing to sub-
mit to the offer, and he enters the reconciliation with his brother ; which he
falsely mentions that by whipping with flags would destroy his temporal —
life ; and he earnestly solicits his brother also to notice the instrument of
death, which he manifestly relates by the use of deer horns, beating his

*It appears by the fictitious accounts, that the said beings became civilized people and
made their residence in the southern parts of the Island ; but afterwards they were destroy-
ed by the barbarous nations, and their fortifications were ruined unto this day.

