PART II.
A REAL ACCOUNT OF THE SETTLEMENT OF NORTH AMERICA AND

THEIR DISSENSIONS.

In the ancient days the Great Island appeared upon the big waters, the —
earth brought forth trees, herbs, vegetables, &e. The creation of the land
animals ; the Eagwehoewe people were too created and resided in the north
regions, and after a time some of the people become giants and committed
outrages upon the inhabitants, de. After many years a body of Kagwe-
hoewe people encamped on the bank of a majestic stream, and was named
Kanawage, now St. Lawrence. After a long time a number of foreign peo-
ple sailed from a port unknown ; but unfortunately before reached their des-
tination the winds drove them contrary ; at length their ship wrecked some-
where on the southern part of the Great Island, and many of the crews
perished ; a few active persons were saved ; they obtained some implements,
and each of them was covered with a leather bag, the big hawks carried
them on the summit of a mountain and remained there but a short time the
hawks seemed to threaten them, and were compelled to leave the mountain:
They immediately selected a place for residence and built a small fortifica-
tion in order to provide against the attacks of furious beasts ; if there should
be any made. After many years the foreign people became numerous, and
extended their settlements ; but afterwards they were destroyed by the
monsters that overrun the country. About this time the Eagwehoewe peo-
ple inhabited on the river Kanawaga or St. Lawrence ; but they could not
enjoy tranquility, as they were invaded by the giants called Ronnongweto-
wanca, who came from the north and inhabited considerably ; but their
mode of attack was slily, and never dared to precipitate themselves upon
the enemy ‘without prospect of success ; especially they took advantage
when the warriors wére absent from the town. After plundering the peo-
ple’s houses and making captives those who were found, andhastily retreat to
their residence in the north. An instance—a family of princes lived near
the river St. Lawrence, of whom, containing six brothers and a sister and
their father, was a noble chieftain, who fell at the contest of the enemy.—
One time the brothers went out a day’s hunt and leaving their sister alone
in the camp ; unfortunately while they were gone the giant makes vigorous
attack and the woman soon became a prey to the invader. On the eve the
brothers returned and were much grieved that their sister was found miss-
ing ; they immediately made a search, but the night was getting too late
and the darkness prevented them. On the morning the eldest brother de- -
termined to pursue the enemy until he could discover something about their
sister, and promised to return in seven days if nothing should happen ; ac-
cordingly the prince set out and pursued the traces of the enemy ; after
journeyed three days he reached the giant’s residence about sundown ; at
first sight he discovered his sister was gathering some sticks for fuel near the
house ; but as he approached the sister retired ; the princess soon proved by

