her conduct that she had fell in love with the giant, and that it was impos-
sible to gain her confidence. The prince was now brought to a point of
view about the dread of the enemy ; but however he was willing to risk the
dangers he was about to meet ; he remained until about dusk and then en-
tered the house ; happily he was received with most favorable terms, and
his fears were soon dissipated, the giant offered his pipe as a tribute of res-
pect, which. the prince accepted. After receiving the evening diet they
talked a good while without a least appearance of hostility; as the night
was getting late the prince was invited to bed ; but the giant was now ac-
ting to deceive the prince ; he commenced to amuse him part of the night
in singing songs ; the giant had determined to assassinate the visiter the
first opportunity as the prince was so fatigued that he was now fast a sleep;
he killed him on the bed and the body was deposited in a cave near the
house where he had stored the carcases. The giant was much pleased of
his conquest over the prince he advised his wife to watch daily in order to
impose on another enemy. The seven days elapsed, as the brother did not
return the youngest brother, Denhionha was much excited about his broth-
er and resolved to pursue him ; the Donhtonha was the most stoutest and
ferocious looking fellow, after armed himself commenced the journey, and
also arrived at the place and time as mentioned, and found his sister ; but
before he had time to reconcile her she returned to the house as she had
formerly done, and informed the giant that some person was coming : the
Donhtonha entered the house with appearances of hostile disposition, and
enquired for his brother ; this produced alarm ; the giant was a to
pacify the prince ; he replied that he had made: peace with the brother, who
had gone to visit some people in the neighborhood, and it was expected he
would return every moment. Upon this assurance the Donhto mha become
some abated ; the sister provided some food and he soon enjoyed the do-
mestic felicity ; : but alas, the giant was far from being friendly and was only
forming a plan to deceive the visiter. ‘The evening was late, the Donhtonha
‘was out of patience waiting for his brother to come home, and renewed his
enquiries ; the visitor was invited to bed ; the giant was in hopes to exter-
minate the visiter ; he rose from his seat arid commenced his usual custom
singing. The Ditdaonis perceived that some evil design was perform-
ing against him and resolved to abandon the bed for a’ while ; ; he begged
leave for a few moments and went out after various considerations from be-
ing imposed ; he procured some pieces of wood which produced a faint light
in the night and put it above his eyelids and again went to ‘bed ; the giant
was now deceived ; while the visiter was asleep his eyes appeared though
he was awake continually. . As soon as day light the visiter hurried from
the bed and was about to make a search for the deceased brother, but the
giant protested which soon excited suspicions of the act ; after a long de-
bate the Donhtonha attacked the giant ; a severe conflict ensued, at last the
giant was killed ; and burnt him in the ruins of his house ; but his spirti
fled to heaven and changed into one of the eastern stars. During the en-
gagement his sister was grieved and fled to the wilderness, and lamented for
her deceased husband, and she died in despair, and her spirit also became
one of the northern stars. After the conquest the search was prosecuted,
he discovered the remains of his brother and weeps over it and burnt it to
ashes.
At a time another Ronnongwetowanea ‘attacked a-small town’ located on
the hank of Kanawage, (St. Lawrence.) This ocurred in a season when the

