18

people were out to hunt, and there was no person in the town except an old
chief and an attendant named Yatatonwatea : while they were enjoying re-
pose in their houses were suddenly attacked by the Ronnongwetowanea; but
the Yatatonwatea escaped, went out the back door and deserted the aged
chief to the fate ; however the enemy spared no time, the chase was soon
prosecuted which caused the Yatatonwatea to retreat as fast as possible ; he
attempted to make resistance in various places, but was compelled to retire at
the appearance of the enemy ; in vain he endeavored to gain retreat by
traversing various creeks and hills ; he undertook a new method of giving
little effect upon the progress of the enemy ; after running some distance
he discovered which would promptly cherish the imposition, he drove a flock
of pigeons in the way to amuse the until he could hide himself under the
bank of the river, unfortunately the flatteringg hope seemed to fail ; after
remaining there but a short time before he saw the enemy was coming in full
speed, and was soon obliged to abandon the position and continue the flight ;
again he tried to conceal himself among the rocks of the mountain, but in a
mean time the enemy advanced at the moment, of which he became dis-
mayed, finding that nothing could resist the impetuosity of the pursuer, but
determined not to surrender as long as he was capable to keep out of the
reach ; he immediately took the path which leads to the hunting grounds in
search of some people ; fortunately at a short distance met two warriors and
he was instantly supported and made vigorous resistance ; after terrible
combat the Ronnongwetowanea was exterminated : during the time the
warriors conducted themselves as heroes, which gained. the triumph, not-
withstanding one of them received a severe wound by the-club. The
Yatatonwatea with alarm whoop hastened to the encampment and advised
the people of the substance and the dangers which the enemy might com-
mit upon the vacant towns. As soon as the people received the intelligence
immediately returned to their settlements, and a convention were held by the
chieftains in order to take some measures to defend their country. As the
Ronnongwetowanea tribe were not numerous and deemed it inexpedient to
raise a large force and therefore a few hundred warriors were sent to subdue
them ; after decisive contests the warriors gained the victory ; and it was
supposed that the Ronnongwetowanea tribe has ever since ceased to exist,
(This fate happened. probably about two thousand: five hundred winters be-
fore Columbus discovered the America.) The depredations of the enemy
which so often exercised upon the inhabitants. were now terminated ; and
the country enjoyed without disturbance many winters. About this time a
mischievous person named Shotyerronsewea, while visiting the people at first
distinguished himself of a good character and in mean time gained. the con-
fidence of the people ; by doing this he was fairly concealed from being
discovered of his real designs, and in a short time began to injure the people ;
he assassinated two warriors secretly, and then violated six virgins, &e., &e.
And the next he ventured to break the harmony of the nation and created
dissensions among the people. At this the chiefs were so offended that the
Shotyeronsgwea was banished from the village ; when he received this treat-
ment he deemed proper to desist from going back to any of the towns; he
immediately crossed the river St. Lawrence and moved towards the midday
sun, and he came to a town situated south of the great lake (Ontario) and
he was received with kindness ; but his entertainment could not appease his
evil designs ; though he appeared reconciled, one night while at the dancing
house he killed several warriors ; this offence he discovered should prove.

