19

fatal to his person, and was compelled to leave the town and went some
other place to do mischief’ The Shotyeronagwea was the greatest mis-
chievous person that ever existed on the contiment. He was considered an
agent from bad. spirit. About this time Big Quisquiss (perhaps the Mam-
moth) invaded the settlements south of Ontario lake ; the furious animal push
down the houses and made a great disturbance ; the people was compelled
to flee from the terrible monster ; the warriors made opposition but failed ;
at length a certain chief warrior collected the men from several towns—a
severe engagement took place, at last the monster retired, but the people
could not remain long without being disturbed ; Big Elk invaded the towns ;
the animal was furious and destroyed many persons ; however the men
were soon collected—a severe contest ensued and the monster was killed.

About this time the northern nations formed a confederacy and seated a
great council fire on river St. Lawrence : the northern nations possessed the
bank of the great lakes ; the countries in the north were plenty of beavers,
but the hunters were often opposed by the big snakes., The people live on
the south side of the Bio Lakes make bread of roots and obtain a kind of
potatoes and beans found on the rich soil.

Perhaps about two thousand two hundred years before the Columbus dis-
covered the America, and northern nations appointed a prince, and immedi-
ately repaired to the south and visited the great Emperor who resided at
_ the Golden City, a capital of the vast empire. After a time the Emperor built
many forts throughout his dominions and almost penetrated the lake Erie ;
this produced an excitement, the people of the north felt that they would soon
be deprived of the country on the south side of the Great Lakes they deter-
mined to defend their country against any infringement of foreign people :
long bloody wars ensued which perhaps lasted about one hundred years :
the people of the north were too skillful in the use of bows and arrows and
could endure hardships which proved fatal to a foreign people ; at last the
northern nations gained the conquest and’ all the towns and forts were
totally destroyed and left them in the heap of ruins.

About this time a great horned serpent appeared on lake Ontario, the
serpent produced diseases and many of the people died, but by the aid of
thunderbolts the monster was compelled to retire. A blazing star fell into a
fort situated on the St. Lawrence and destroyed the people ; this event was
considered as a warning of their destruction. After a time a war broke out
among the northern nations which continued until they had utterly destroyed
each other, the island again become in possession of fierce animals.

