PART III.
ORIGIN OF THE KINGDOM OF THE FIVE NATIONS, WHICH WAS CALLED
A LONG HOUSE ;—THE WARS, FIERCE ANIMALS, &e.

By some imducement a body of people was concealed in the mountain at
the falls named Kuskehsawkich, (now Oswego.) When the people were
released from the mountain they were visited by TARENYAWAGON, i. e.
the Holder of the Heavens, who had power to change himself into various
shapes : he ordered the people to proceed towards the sunrise as he guided
them arid come to a river and named Yenonanatche, i. e. going round
a mountain, (now Mohawk) and went down the bank of the-river and
come to where it discharges into a great river running towards the midday
sun ; and Shaw-nay-taw-ty, i. e. beyond the Pineries, (now Hfudson,) and went
down the bank of the river and touched bank of a great water. The com-
pany made encampment at the place and remained there a few days. The
people were yet in one language ; some of the people went to the banks of
great water towards the midday sun ; but the main company returned as
they came, on the bank of the river, under the ‘direction of the holder of the
Heavens. Of this compaay there was a particular body. which called them-
selves one household ; of these were six families and they extered into a
resolution to preserve the chain of alliance which should not be extinouished
in any manner. ‘The company advanced some distance up the river of
Shaw-na-taw-ty, (Hudson) the Holder of the Heavens directs the first fam-
ily to make their residence near the bank of the river, afd the family was
was named Te-haw-re-ho-geh, i.e. a Speech divided, (now Mohawk) and
their language was soon altered : the company then turned and went to-
wards the sunsetting and travelled about two days and a half, and come to
a creek* which was named Kaw-na-taw-te-ruh, i e. Pineries. The second
family was directed to make their residence near the creek, and the family
was named Ne-haw-re-tah-go, i. e. Big Tree, now Oneidas, and likewise
their language was altered. The company continued to proceed towards the
sunsetting under the direction of the Holder of the Heavens, The third
family was directed to make their residence on a mountain named Onondaga,
(now Onondaga) and the family was named Seuh-now-kah-tah, i. e. carrying
the name, and their language was altered, The company continued their
journey towards the sunsetting. The fourth family was directed to make
their residence near a long lake named Go-yo-goh, i. e. @ mountain rising
from water, (now Cayuga) and the family was named Sho-nea-na-we-to-wah,
i.e. a great pipe, their language was altered. The company continued to
proceed towards the sunsetting. The fifth family was directed to make their
residence near a high mountain, or rather nole, situated south of the Can-
andaigua lake, which was named Jenneatowake and the family was named

* The creek now branches off the Susquehannah River at the head generally called Col.
Allen’s lake, ten miles south of the Oneida Castle.

