21

Te-how-nea-nyo-hent, i. e. Possessing a Door, now Seneca, and their lan-
guage was altered. The sixth family went with the company that journey-
ed towards the sunsetting, and touched the bank of a great lake, and named
Kau-ha-pwa-rah-ka, i.e. A Cap, now Erie, and then went towards between
the midday and sunsetting, and travelled considerable distance and came to
a large river which was named Ouau-we-yo-ka, i. e. a principal stream, now
Mississippi ; the people discovered a grape vine lying across the river by
which a part of the people went over,* but while they were engaged, the
vine broke and were divided, they became enemies to those who went over
the river ; in consequence they were obliged to dispense the journey. he
Holder of the Heavens instruct them in the art of bows and arrows in the
time of game and danger. Associates are dispersed, and each family went
to search for residences according to their conveniences of game. The sixth
family went towards the sunrise and touched the bank of the great water.
The family vas directed to make their residence near Cau-ta-noh, i. e. Pine
in water, situated near the mouth of Nuse river, now in North Carolina, and
the family was named Kau-ta-noh, now Tuscarora and their language was
also altered ; but the six families did not go so far as to loose the understand-
ing of each other's language. The Holder of the Heavens returns to the
five families and forms the mode of confederacy, which was named Ggo-nea-
seab-neh, i. e. A Long House, to which are 1st.—Tea-kaw-reh-ho-geh; 2d—
New-haw-teh-tah-go0 ; 3d—Seuh-nau-ka-ta; 4th—Sho-nea-na-we-to-wan :
5th—Te-hoo-nea-nyo-hent. About this time it is supposed an agent from
superior power solemnly visits the families, and he instructs them in various
things respecting the infinity, matrimony, moral rules, worship, &e.; and he
warns them that an evil spirit was in the world and would induce the people
to commit tresspasses against the rules he had given them ; and he offers
them favorable promises obedience to rules, the souls would enter the place
of happiness ; but to the disobedient their souls would be sent to a state of
misery. And he gives the seeds for corn, beans, squashes, potatoes and to-
bacco, with directions how to cultivate them ; and he gives them the dogs to
aid in pursuing the game; and he repeats the administration of the game ;
and that the great country was given for their people’s maintenance. When
he ended the interview of consolation he leaves. a Bot
About one hundred winters since the people left the mountain,—the five
families were increased, and made some villages in the country. The Hold-
er of the Heavens was absent from the country, which was destitute of the
visits of the Governor of the Universe. The reason produced the occasion.
that they were invaded by the monsters called Ko-nea-rau-neh-neh, i. e.
Flying Heads, which devoured several people of the country. The Flying
Heads made invasions in the night ; but the people were attentive to escape
by leaving their huts and concealing themselves in other huts prepared for
that purpose. An instance :—there was an old woman which resided at
Onondaga ; she was left alone in the hut at evening, while others. deserted.
She was setting near the fire parching some acorns when the monstrous Head
made its appearance at the door : while viewing the woman it was amazed
that she eat the coals of fire, by which the monsters. were put to flight, and
ever since the heads disappeared and were supposed concealed in the earth.
After a short time the people were invaded. by the monster of the deep :
the Lake Serpent traverses the country, which interrupted their intercourse.

*By some this may seem an incredible story. Why more so than that the Israelites should
cross the Red Sea on dry land.

