22
The five families were compelled to make fortifications throughout their res-
pective towns, in order to secure themselves from the devouring monsters.—
The manner making the fort : at first. they set fire against several trees as
requires to make a fort, and the stone axes are used to rub off the coals, as
to burn quicker ; when the tree burns down they put fires to it about three
spaces apart and burns it down in half a day ; the logs are collected to a
place where they set up round according to the bigness of the fort, and the
earth. is heaped on both sides. A fort generally has two gates ; one for pas-
sage, and the other to obtain water. . The people had implements which they
used to make bow and arrows. The kettle is made of baked clay in which
the meat is boiled ; the awl and needles are made of hard bone ; a pipe for
smoking, is made of baked clay, or soft stone ; a small turtle shell is used to
peal the bark ; a small dry stick is used to make a fire, by boring it against
the seasoned wood.

Perhaps about 1250 years before Columbus discovered the America, about
two hundred and fifty winters since the people left the mountain, the five
families became numerous and extended their settlements, as the country
had been exposed to the invasion of the monsters that the people could not
enjoy but a short space of time without being molested. About this time a
powerful tribe of the wilderness, called Otne-yar-heh, i.e. Stonish Giants*
overrun the country and the warriors were immediately collected. from sev-
eral towns and a severe combat took place, but the warriors were overpow-
ered and the people fell at the mercy of the invaders, and the people were
threatened with destruction, and the country was brought to subjection for.
many winters. As the people have been reduced so often they could not
increase. The Stonish Giants were so ravenous that they devoured the peo-
a of almost every town in the country ; but happily the Holder of the
Heavens again visits the people and he observes that the people were in
distressed condition on the account of the enemy. With a stratagem he
proceeds to banish their invaders, and he changes himself into a Giant, and.
combines the Stonish Giants, he introduces them to take the lead to destroy
the people of the country : but a days march they did not reach the fort
Onondaga, where they intended to invade, and he ordered them to lay in a
deep hollowt during the night and they would make attack on the following
morning. At a dawn of the day, the Holder of the Heavens ascended upon
the heights and he overwhelms them by a mass of rocks, and only one es-
caped to announce the dreadful fate ; and since of the event the Stonish
Giants left the country and seeks an assylum in the regions of the north—
The families were now preserved from extinction. The Lake Serpent dis-
covers the powerful operations of the Holder of the Heavens; instantly re-
treats into the deep places of the lakes. After the banishment of the mon-
ster of the deep made its appearance in the country ; a snake with the shape
of human head opposed the passage between the Onondaga and Go-yo-gouh,

*It appears by the traditions of the Shawnees, that the Stonish Giants descend from a
certain family that journeyed on the east side of Mississippi River, went towards the north-
west after they were separated, on account of the vine broke. The family was left to seek
its habitation, and the rules of humanity were forgotten, and afterwards eat raw flesh of
the animals. At length they practiced rolling themselves on the sand by means their bodies
‘were covered with hard skin these people became giants and were dreadful invaders of the
country. It is said that Sir William Johnson, the Superintendant of the Six Nations, had
4 picture of the giant. Probably the English have recorded in the Historian respecting
North America.

tThe hollow it is said not far from Onondaga. Some says the Giants retreated by way
fountain Ridge and crossed below the Niagara Falls.

