23

now Cayuga, which prevented their intercourse, as the snake had seated
near the principle path leads through the settlements of the Five Families.
The people were troubled of their condition, and finally they determined to
make resistance ; They selected the best warriors at Onondaga, and after
they were organized and prepared proceeded to the place ; after a severe
conflict the snake was killed ; the lake serpent was often seen by the peo-
ple, but the thunder bolt destroyed the serpent or compelled them to retire
into the deep. About this time they were various nations inhabited the
southern countries, these nations descended from the families that were dis-
persed after the vine broke on Onauweyoka, [Mississippi.] The Holder of
the Heavens visited the Five Families and instructed them in the arts of
war, and favors them to gain the country beyond their limits, after which he
disappeared.

Perhaps 1000 years before Columbus discovered the America. About
this time the Five Families become independent nations, and they formed a
Council fire in each nation, &c. Unfortunately a war broke out among the
Five Nations : during the unhappy differences the Atotarho was the most
hostile chief, resilled at the fort Onondaga ; his head and body was orna-
mented with black snakes ;—his dishes and spoons were made of skulls of
the enemy ; after a while he requested the people to change his dress, the
people immediately drove away the snakes—a mass of wampam. were col-
lected and the chief was soon dressed in a large belt of. wampam ; he be-
came a law giver, and renewed the chain of alliance of the Five Nations
_and framed their internal government, which took five years in accomplish-
ing it. At Onondaga a tree of peace was planted reached the clouds of
Heaven ; under the shade of this tree the Senators are invited to set and
deliberate, and smoke the pipe of peace as ratification of their proceedings ;
a great council fire was kindled under the majestic tree, having four branch-
es, one pointed to the south, west, east, north : the neighboring nations were
amazed at the powerful confederates ; the Onondaga was considered a heart
of the country ; numerous belts and strings of wampam were left with the
famous chief as record of alliance, &c., after he had accomplished the noble
work he was immediately named Atotarho, King of the Five Nations ; and
was governed by the senate, chosen by the people annually ; the successor
of the kings to follow the woman’s line. About this time the.‘Te-hoo-nea-
nyo-hent, or Senecas was at war with the Squawkihows, a powerful tribe
passed the banks of the Genesee river ; after various engagements the Sen-
ecas sent an army to scourge the enemy, but were repulsed with a severe
loss ; the melancholy intelligence was soon conveyed to Odnonaga and in-
formed the king of their defeat ; a powerful army of the allies were sooti
directed against the Squawkihows ; after a long siege the principal fort was
surrendered without discretion, and the chief was taken prisoner, put to
death, the war terminated, however a remnant of the Squawkihows were al-
lowed to remain in the country and became vassals to the five nations after
the conquest. The government ordered the Senecas to settle the country
and to build forts on the Genesee river as to keep Squaukihaws im subjec-
tion, for fearing in time they might create a rebellion. The Senecas now
possessed along the bank of the Great Lake, now Ontario, to the creek call-
ed Kenaukarent, now Oak Orchard, the bank of the river Onyakarra, now
Niagara, possessed by Twakanhah, [Misissaugers.]

In the days the king Atotarho Il. about this time the Oyalkquoher, or
big bear invaded the territory of the five nations, the hunters were often at-

